I'm the tenth or twelve kids grew up in
northern New Mexico growing up on the
ranch you have to make deal with what
you have and so as kids we invented
things that was just part of what we did
I enjoyed engineering and so I pursued
that in college and graduate school but
Jarrell is looking for new ideas right
you're always trying to figure out
problems to solve and for me the
creative process the design process
itself is something that I enjoy and so
way back in the early 2000 2003 and so
forth I picked up a piece of rubber and
I held it up and I realized aha
I wonder if and so I I took the piece of
rubber and I took two guitar picks and I
strum the guitar thinking gosh if you
were to switch the functionality of one
pick striking two strings on a full
string guitar and making it to pick
heads striking one string on a
six-string guitar it might be an
interesting sound and Oh a lot actually
worked and so that was the beginning of
the process of developing the plutonium
I've had the opportunity to work with
some national labs here in New Mexico
and what I've been looking for is the
ability to understand the dynamics of
using two picks simultaneously using my
product the idea was was to use
high-speed digital cameras in this case
phantom cameras they capture images at
5,000 frames per second which is pretty
amazing and it literally slows time down
so you can begin to see how each of the
pics is moving individually but also how
the whole system works together as it
strikes the guitar I wanted to propose
that you could use two pics
simultaneously and how would you do that
you do that by creating functioning the
finger essentially between these two
pics and when you hold it up the
interesting part to the design is is how
the the pivot that's embedded inside the
Plex own coupler interacts with the soft
rubber material on the outside the hole
in the background was essentially put
there in order to create the right
balance
around the pivot to reduce the stiffness
so that the pics were able to move more
freely as you strum dit
concept of the double pick is fairly
intuitive in that the first string
strikes a string let's do it like this
and then it's followed up by the second
pick striking okay and so as you're
strumming
you can hear the double pulse so the
trick is now I can I can hear the double
pulse when you're when you're strumming
slowly at slow velocities right but what
happens when you're doing a normal strum
what's happening at those rates
alright looks like we got that one of
the neat things about using you know the
high frame rate digital cameras it
allows you to see the dynamics that
you've been imagining the whole time you
can talk about the concept you can talk
about the double pulse and you can even
imagine and and on first principle you
can imagine how this thing behaves but
to actually watch it at 5,000 frames a
second is pretty astounding not least of
which is to watch the strings vibrate
when there's the one the pic hits and
then to see that the two pics bending by
themselves independently and how they
react and how the timing is changed when
the first pic is moving already to the
second string when the second pic is
just encountering the the first one and
so it's that idea of of attaching a
visual to something that you've been
able to hear and sense on the macro and
and feel by using the visual thing is a
very powerful way to confirm and also
communicate the idea that the dynamics
are a lot more more interesting than
even I imagined